README.md, before:

# CS 24
_Spring 2023_

Welcome to CS 24!  Lecture notes and programming assignments will be linked here
as they're released. If you're looking for administrative information, check the
[syllabus](Syllabus.md).  If you're looking for links specific to this session,
or just have questions, head over to [Piazza](https://piazza.com/ucsb/spring2023/cs24).


## Places & Times

- **Lectures**  14:00 to 15:15 on Mondays and Wednesdays in 1006 North Hall
- **Labs**  09:00 to 13:00 (one hour each) on Fridays in 3525 Phelps Hall
- **Kevin's Office Hours**  15:15 to 16:15 on Mondays in CSIL
- **Surya's Office Hours**  14:00 to 16:00 on Tuesdays in CSIL


## Assignments

_Assignments are due before midnight Pacific Time._

| Name               | Due
|--------------------|-----
| [Welcome](welcome) | April 11th


## Lectures

_14:00 to 15:15 Mondays and Wednesdays in 1006 North Hall_

| Date           | Topics
|----------------|--------
| April      3rd | Admin stuff; the syllabus; Git
| April      5th | More Git; C++ compilation; memory layout

Commit message:

More office hours and lecture topics.

README.md, after:

# CS 24
_Spring 2023_

Welcome to CS 24!  Lecture notes and programming assignments will be linked here
as they're released. If you're looking for administrative information, check the
[syllabus](Syllabus.md).  If you're looking for links specific to this session,
or just have questions, head over to [Piazza](https://piazza.com/ucsb/spring2023/cs24).


## Places & Times

- **Lectures**  14:00 to 15:15 on Mondays and Wednesdays in 1006 North Hall
- **Labs**  09:00 to 13:00 (one hour each) on Fridays in 3525 Phelps Hall
- **Kevin's Office Hours**    15:15 to 16:15 on Mondays in CSIL
- **Surya's Office Hours**    14:00 to 16:00 on Tuesdays in CSIL
- **Huanhua's Office Hours**  14:30 to 15:30 on Thursdays in CSIL
- **Kaiwen's Office Hours**   17:00 to 18:00 on Thursdays in 1002 Henley Hall


## Assignments

_Assignments are due before midnight Pacific Time_

| Name               | Due
|--------------------|-----
| [Welcome](welcome) | April 11th


## Lectures

_14:00 to 15:15 Mondays and Wednesdays in 1006 North Hall_

| Date           | Topics
|----------------|--------
| April      3rd | Admin stuff; the syllabus; Git
| April      5th | More Git; C++ compilation; memory layout
| April     10th | The stack and the heap; data structures; sequences
| April     12th | More sequences; vectors; linked lists
